# developmental-spacetime
# Synopsis
I have been developing a line of theory that further demonstrates my innovative approach to biology. My preprint “Does the inertia of a cell depend upon its information context?” (file: 2020b_Elewa) and its prelude “A Waddington Epigenetic Landscape for the C. elegans embryo” (file: 2020a_Elewa) are products of this approach. Briefly, my experience analyzing single-cell RNAseq data in the context of regeneration in addition to my background in C. elegans embryo development, together with my unpublished experiments on giant salamander lampbrush chromosomes all informed a model whereby the diversity of a cell’s transcriptome (i.e. the number of expressed genes) can be quantified using Shannon’s Entropy and is related to the cell’s trajectory along a differentiation path. This trajectory can be conceived geometrically and can be deconstructed to identify genes that contribute the most to the shape of modeled topography. With this invocation of geometry, I integrated elements of General Relativity in an attempt to articulate my model in terms of “Developmental Spacetime”. The result has been an equation that I derived and that relates cellular mass and duration (time) with its transcriptome (entropy of its information content). While I validated the relation between cell duration and its transcriptome in the preprint using published datasets, a similar validation for cellular mass awaits suitable data. I hope to further develop this line of research in collaboration with lab(s) that obtain empirical data of cell mass, duration and transcriptome profiles.
